Software Design Document
Executive Summary:

We are tasked to create a website that suits the needs of our client, Dana, a representative of The Down Syndrome Foundation of Orange County. The website will be a learning portal and community for teachers of students with Down syndrome. The website will act as a central resource for teachers to communicate through for solely educational purposes and support for teaching children with Down syndrome. Parents will also use the organization’s website for similar purposes. Website will provide teachers valuable feedback on materials and teaching methods that are beneficial.

Users will be granted the ability to explore what Down syndrome is, the backstory of the Down Syndrome Foundation of Orange County, calendar events, and how they themselves can help in being a part of the organization. Administrators also have the same abilities as the user, plus the ability to edit the website and update upcoming events. The teachers will interact with our software by using it as an interactive portal for resources, educational material, and support. This particular website will be a user-friendly website that will accommodate to the problems of teachers and who educate children with Down syndrome.

Statement of Purpose:

The organization needs teachers to do effective instruction
Because of the way the credential system is set up, they (teachers) may only need 8 hours of training. They may not know how to work with kids that need special training
In other words, teachers feel unequipped
The organization needs features to share instruction, strategy, and material to help take the burden off of parents and put it on teachers, so teachers won't feel unequipped
We aim to deliver a successfully operable website that meets and perhaps exceeds the needs of our client. Our sole motivation for completing this is the fact that it is our senior design project, which is required to graduate. When the project is complete it will be handed off to the Down Syndrome Foundation of Orange County to use and maintain. Our success is measured by how many of our client’s requirements are met. These requirements will reflect our grade and will also be a big necessity for the organization. Previously, the organization addressed the problems that teachers are having which included lack of educational support, credible resources, and stability for teaching those with Down syndrome. These teachers did not have a certain structure to look off from to help them with teaching. Our website will not only provide the support, resources, and stability, but also give them the opportunity to provide feedback and comments as a means of communication with one another. The website as simple as it sounds has a lot of uncertainty as well. One since multiple teachers will be using this website. Each teachers has their own preference on options and customization they would want to make. We want to maximize the customization level as well as allow teachers to use the website as a resource.

Because of the problems that teachers have between education and Down syndrome, children with Down syndrome become affected by those teachers. These teachers are one of their main sources in their development in life, but the chain of events that lead to the teachers’ lack of educational resources stifles with the children’s learning capabilities. The interactive portal helps connect teachers to help connect with their own students to improve the learning structure between the teacher and student.

The Down Syndrome Foundation of Orange County is the basis of the interactive portal. Since they already host a website that provides users with calendar events, donation options, etc., their next option to help with the organization is the interactive portal. Their website will give access to this portal and will also help promote their organization.

Specifications:

Our overall architecture is model-view-controller, as almost all websites and web applications are. One example of a website that we will be working off of is IHOP’s website, which displays vibrant colors and a simple, yet efficient layout for easy user management.
Our main programming language is PHP, as both Wordpress and phpBB, the systems we will be using are coded in such.
Data will be stored on a web server provided by our client.
We will be using the Wordpress content management system as it is the perfect compromise between the limits of Wordpress and the complexity of Drupal. There is a lot of unofficial support and free addons and plugins for the system itself.
We will be using phpBB for our forums. It is free and meets practically all the needs of any forum.
Allow options for teachers to save materials onto the website. Sharing, receiving feedback on what works and what does not.
Forum option for teachers to communicate with each other.
Databases will be created and managed automatically between Wordpress/phpBB and mySQL.
We will be using PHP

We will be using Wordpress

Our overall architecture will be model-view-controller, as most web applications are.

Login and Password required to download resources

Resource descriptions can be viewed without user accounts

Social Media Integration will be accounted for. Users will be able to connect their accounts with their Facebook accounts.

They will also be able to comment on specific resources when signed into their accounts to give feedback on the effectiveness of the resource.

Our basic MVC from what we understand right now will be as follows: Controller is determined by the teacher and how he or she will interact with the system. As the teacher is navigating the site, the Model will update the view which will be determined by our system (Interface, redirect links). View will represent what the user wants to see. In this case, this will be navigating the resources provided and choosing which ones to view and/or download. Right now, we are looking at many open source programs for us to use and customize to her liking.

Worpress and PHP will be very useful for initiating our Model View Controller, and implementation will be easier to initialize once figuring out how to incorporate the two becomes more visible to the group.

Requirements

Log in to the website and access the teacher portal It is necessary to register because the portal will not be free for anyone to use The portal is mainly for teachers and parents who are trying to teach children with Down syndrome
Import the wiki into the teacher portal Based off of what Dana gave us, the wiki will provide valuable information about educational material. This material can be used as part of teacher resources.
Teacher portal uses a search bar that leads to a defined set of information from the specified keyword Training opportunities, videos, PDFs, and other resources We will need to create the framework of the portal, and "pollute" the portal with all these resources The search bar will make it easier for teachers to navigate through the portal
Depository of modified work Have categories/tabs of Language Arts, Math, and other general subjects, and then topics within those categories or tabs that lead to educational resources pertaining to each specified subject
Adding a forum/blog and tie it into commenting functionality One of the main requirements that Dana wants us to work with Comments section underneath the PDFs posted by other teachers to show good feedback Some sort of communication will be established with each other and teachers can learn from not only the resources provided in the portal, but also from each other
Good structure set up by the end of the quarter so people can use it and make feedback The design structure that we will be working with will be appealing internally and externally Internally: Working within the framework and programming language will be simple yet efficient so future users who would want to edit the website will be free to do so without any problems (Manuals will be provided, however) Externally: The website will be appealing to the user considering the vibrant colors that work well with the specific fonts upon our choosing. The purpose is to attract the user rather than stray them away because of poor style and color schemes
