1)	Where is our project right now?
Currently we are in the step between the completion of our development and our user testing. 
We have the skeleton of our website completed. We are just waiting to add some resources to the site so 
that we can implement user testing and see that the flow of information is working as we hope it will. 
We did receive some feedback about the look and feel of our website. Since we went for a minimalistic look, 
Tao felt that it looked to simple and “bloggish” so we are working with Dana to see if this is something we need to change. 
She did say that she likes the homepage as is and she is going to get some feedback on the rest of the site to 
see if we need to change any other aspects, in terms of look. I would consider this the period of time that is very crucial. 
We need to have as many people use our site and get as much criticism as we can. Since we have these last ten weeks to really 
make the changes necessary, we need to know what needs to be done and we need to know that as soon as possible.

2)	What are the main pending tasks we have now?
  The main pending tasks left are:
    1)	Add resources to the website
    2)	Have users begin user-testing
    3)	Create questionnaire for users to fill out after
    4)	Have Dana use our documentation to “test” that it is manageable
    5)	Take user-testing data and make necessary changes to the site
    6)	Give Dana a “crash-course” on WordPress
    7)	Possibly add more stylistic elements to the site

3)	What should we do to complete those tasks?
  1)	Get Resources from Dana over winter break
  2)	Skype meeting scheduled with Dana for Monday to start setting up schedule for user testing
  3)	Do this during our first biweekly meeting with Dana during winter quarter
  4)	Properly document the user’s reviews 
  5)	^ same as above
  6)	This step will occur later in Spring Quarter after implementing changes. It will take a few meetings to do this so we can really get her to get a good grasp of how it works
  7)	Discuss with Dana during Skype meeting next week
