What we are building and why Team Jarls

Jerome Revilla, Alexander Remigio, Ravi Patel, Luke Fiji, Samir Sachdeva

What we are building

Our group is building a website for the Down Syndrome Foundation of Orange County. It will be compatible to all internet browsers and will contain a navigational tool that leads to pages pertaining to useful information that the teachers can use. These pages will have videos, PDFs, forums/blogs, and other subject materials that will be only be accessible through the website and through registration. The website will take on a design that will show a vibrant appeal through colors and fonts that capture the user’s attention. This certain appeal will accommodate to everyone who uses it, including users, administrators, and teachers especially.

Users will be granted the ability to explore what Down syndrome is, the backstory of the Down Syndrome Foundation of Orange County, calendar events, and how they themselves can help in being a part of the organization. Administrators also have the same abilities as the user, plus the ability to edit the website and update upcoming events. The teachers will interact with our software by using it as an interactive portal for resources, material, and most importantly, educational support.

This particular website will be a user-friendly website that will accommodate to the problems of teachers who educate children with Down syndrome.

Why we are building it

There are three stakeholder groups in particular that are addressed by this project: teachers, children with Down syndrome, and the Down Syndrome Foundation of Orange County.

The problem is that teachers find themselves in a predicament when it comes to lack of professional training and support. There is no central foundation as to where they can discover resources and material that help with their teaching profession because of how the credential system is set up. As a result, teachers do not feel equipped to work, putting more of a burden towards the children’s parents. The interactive portal will be the solution to those problems, because it will be the center of information for teachers to share with one another. One of the special features that would help this exchange of information is the ability to comment on each other’s forums. The educational support and strategy that they need will be available through the website.

Children with Down syndrome are greatly affected by the teachers. These teachers are one of their main sources in their development in life. However, the chain of events that lead to the teachers’ lack of educational resources stifles with the children’s learning capabilities. The interactive portal helps connect teachers to help connect with their own students to improve the learning structure between the teacher and student, which also decreases the burden put on the parents of those children.

The Down Syndrome Foundation of Orange County is be the basis of the interactive portal. Since they already host a website that provides users with calendar events, donation options, etc., their next option to help with the organization is the interactive portal. Their website will give access to this portal and will also help promote their organization.

Since the website already provides useful information about their organization and Down syndrome itself, it serves as a good educational tool for users who are new to the subject and are interested in learning more about it. Those who want to help the organization can do so by donating proceeds through the website, while other users such as teachers can partake in providing good feedback/material for other teachers and users who are using the interactive portal.
